These are the true events
of November, 1965.
The la Drang Valley
of Vietnam.
A place our country does
not remember...
...in a war it does
not understand.
This story is the testament
to the young...
...Americans who died in the
Valley of Death...
...and a tribute
to the young men...
...of the People's Army
of Vietnam...
...who died by our hand
in that place.
To tell this story, l must start...
...at the beginning.
But where does it begin?
Maybe in June of 1954...
...when French Group Mobile
1 00 moved into...
...the same Central Highlands
of Vietnam...
...where we would go
1 1 years later.
See anything?
No, Captain.
Fucking grass...
Fucking heat...
Fucking country...
Do we take prisoners?
No. Kill all they send...
...and they will stop coming.
Maybe the story begins
in America...
...when the Army
first realized...
...a new kind of war was
coming its way.
The White House anticipates
a buildup...
...and wants a victory.
Over cavemen,
in black pajamas.
We wouldn't be there if they
hadn't already beaten...
...the French Army.
The French Army?
What's that?
The problem in Vietnam
is terrain.
Jungle, mountains, rivers,
maneuver is a nightmare.
That's why we came up with
the plan to use helicopters.
Leap in and out of battle.
They want you to run
the test on the idea.
lt'll take a hell
of a combat leader.
l know a young light Colonel
named Hal Moore.
He led a combat company
in Korea.
After that he volunteered
to test experimental parachutes.
Experimental parachutes?
Sounds like just the guy.
The other side
of the mountain...
...was all that he can see.
Was all that he can see...
The other side
of the mountain...
...was all that he can see.
The bear went over
the mountain...
...the bear went over
How about we go back
to Bingo?
-What do you say? Bingo!
-Oh...
B-l-N-G-O...
Tom...
How much you know about
our new Colonel?
He was in Korea.
Has a Masters in lnternational
Relations from Harvard.
Harvard? He's not one of those
academic pussies, is he?
Hal Moore?
THE WARS lN lNDOCHlNA
Come on, Too Tall,
give me you best shot, baby!
Did you see that?
Snakeshit drives that
one to the moon.
To the moon!
And he's coming around...
No, he's not...
You're out, Snakeshit!
You're out!
Horseshit! No wonder you
can't fly! You can't see!
l believe you're out.
-You're a pilot?
-Too Tall, sir.
-Yeah, l can see that.
-You call, we haul.
-Can l speak to you a minute?
-Yes, sir.
-Out!
-Safe.
-Can l buy you a drink?
-Sure.
Oh, thanks.
So your men
call you, Snakeshit?
That's an affectionate
appellation...
...of my comrades-in-arms, sir.
Because l fly lower
than snakeshit.
Well, l gotta problem,
Snakeshit.
And l think you're the solution.
l've been called a lot of
things, Colonel never a solution.
You know what Air Cavalry
really means?
You fly into hostile territory,
out-numbered.
1 0,000 miles from home.
Sometimes the battleground's
no bigger than a football field.
And if the choppers stop
coming we all get slaughtered.
Now l figure, chopper pilots
won't fly...
...into hell for strangers so...
-...l'm Hal Moore.
-l know, sir.
Why us?
Well, you guys look like shit.
But your equipment
is immaculate.
Yesterday was Sunday, you
didn't have to be...
...training but you were.
And you got pilots like that
Too Tall character.
He's way outside the limits
of Army regs...
...they want to fly with
you for some reason.
l guess it's because
they think you're the best.
lt's because l only recruit
the dumb ones, sir.
l suppose that l have a choice
in all of this.
You sure don't.
l wouldn't miss it for
the world.
To The Air Cav.
Good morning, Sergeant-Major.
How do you know what kind
of goddamn day it is?
Group!
Attention!
At ease, Gentlemen!
Welcome to the new cavalry.
We will ride into battle.
And this...
...will be our horse.
You don't have to catch it.
You don't have to feed it.
But l can assure you...
...that neither
the new technology...
...nor your status
as officers...
...will keep you above
the danger.
Sergeant-Major Plumley and
l come from the paratroopers...
...where the officer is always
the first one out of the plane...
...because to follow
your instincts...
...and to inspire your men
by your example...
...you have to be with them...
...where the metal meets
the meat.
Sergeant- Major Plumley made
all 4 combat jumps...
...in the 82nd Airborne during
World War ll.
Sicily, Salerno, Normandy
and Holland...
...plus one more in Korea.
He answers to me...
...and to me alone.
Now l hope you Gentlemen
like training.
Because me and the
Sergeant-Major...
...we love it.
Three strikes
and you're not out!
There is always one more
thing you can do!
Go! Go! Now!
-2...
-Let's go!
...3.
-Pretty good, no?
-Pretty good.
There's only one thing wrong.
Let's be sharp, men!
We will be the best...
...platoon in this battalion.
Be ready in there!
Let's go! Let's go!
Alright! Your officer's dead!
What do you do?
Alright, he hesitated! He's dead!
-Get off the chopper!
Alright, all officers.
Come on in.
Savage, you learn the job
of the man above you.
And you teach your job
to the man below you in rank.
That goes for every man
in this outfit. Understood?
Yes, Sir!
We'll be landing under fire.
Men will die.
Have you said your prayers?
No?
-No.
-l'll say them with you.
Fall in.
Alright.
Ready? Set.
ln the name of The Father,
The Son...
...and The Holy Ghost.
Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace...
...the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou amongst women...
...and blessed is the fruit
of thy womb...
Holy Mary, mother of...
Cecile, l don't hear you
praying, honey.
l don't want to be a Catholic.
l want to be a Methodist
like Mommy.
You do?
And why is that, honey?
So l can pray whatever
l want.
-That's a sin.
-No, no, that's not a sin.
God just made you hardheaded.
That's not a sin.
l'll tell you what,
do you want to...
...do you want to pray and thank
God for our family?
-Yes, sir.
-That's good, then let's do it.
Hail Mary, full of grace.
The Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou
among women...
...and blessed is the fruit
of thy womb, Jesus.
l can hear you laughing,
you know, even in here.
l'm not laughing, l'm marveling.
Marveling? About what?
That you can find
stubbornness...
...in your children and
think it comes...
...from anybody but you.
Oh, yeah?
l'll give you something
to marvel at.
When l pray...
...whatever l want...
l thank God for you.
lt's a beautiful morning,
Sergeant-Major.
Are you a fuckin'
weatherman now?
Look what l found for the
new baseball player.
They've sent us another
bunch of officers.
Real green.
Got to train them up.
Makes me think of starting
a new unit.
They sent new rifles too.
The M-1 6.
lt's supposed to be a
pretty good weapon.
Ah, lots of plastic.
Feels like a B-B gun to me.
l think l'll stick
with my pistol.
You think we're going to get
close enough...
...to the enemy to use that?
What do you think, sir?
A leader must remain
cool and calm.
And second you must
learn to ignore...
...the explosions,
the heat, the dust...
...the screams of the wounded.
This is normal on the battlefield.
Normal.
...l got wounded...
Sir, we need the helicopters
over with...
...reinforcements right now...
Where the hell is
that coming from?
lt's our advisors in Vietnam.
The new radio's picking up
atmospheric bounce.
When Crazy Horse
was a baby...
...he nursed from the breast
of every woman in the tribe.
The Sioux raised their
children that way.
Every warrior...
...called every woman
in the tribe ''Mother''.
Every older warrior they called
him ''Grandfather''.
And the point here is they
fought as a family.
Take care of your men.
Teach them to take care
of each other.
Because when this starts...
...each other is all
we're going to have.
-Did you tune that in?
-Yes, sir.
That's fine.
You're my radio operator.
-l...
-You'll be fine.
You'll work it out.
Any of you, son-of-a-bitches
calls me Grandpa...
l'll kill you.
Godboldt, take your boots off.
Go on.
Everybody, take your boots off.
Everybody. Socks too.
l want you to draw out fresh
socks from supply...
...and keep your feet
dusted with powder.
Everybody check each other's
feet like Godboldt and me.
Now that young man's a leader.
Yes, sir.
But that other fellow...
...that big strong one there...
...he wants to win medals.
He's eager.
Ladies, l'm just
really glad...
...that you're all
here today.
l know that some of you are
new to the Army, and...
...all of us are new
to this post...
...so l thought we could
pull our resources and cover...
...whatever questions
we might have.
So why don't we start with
item number one:
...food.
lf the commissary is out of
something...
...where's the best
place to shop?
l tried Big Star, it's okay.
But l keep thinking
my water is going to break...
...right in the checkout aisle.
So, that takes care
of food shopping.
So, item number two:
laundry.
The base washing machines
don't work.
They're full of sand from
the swamp missions.
-Alright, l'll take care of that.
-l've already complained.
Well, we'll just go to
the General.
ln the meantime, the
Laundromat in town is okay.
They won't let you wash colored
things in their machines.
At a public Laundromat?
But l'm telling you they have
a big sign right...
...in the window says,
''Whites Only''.
-What?
-Honey, they mean...
...white people only.
That's awful.
Your husband is wearing
the uniform of a country...
...that allows a place to say
that his laundry's not good...
...enough when
he could die for?
-l'm sorry, l just...
-That's alright, honey.
l know what my husband
is fighting for and...
...that's why l can smile.
My husband would never
ask for respect.
And he'll give respect to no
man who hasn't earned it.
The rest of his family is
the same way.
And anybody who doesn't
respect that can keep...
...his goddamn
washing machine...
...because my baby's clothes
are going to be clean anyway.
Well, l guess that takes care
of item number two.
Are you alright?
l think... l think my water
just broke.
Okay, we're all calm.
We're all calm.
The car!
l'll get the car!
-Colonel.
-At ease. At ease.
l heard one of my new
Lieutenant's...
...just became a father.
l came to say congratulations.
-Thank you, sir.
-l didn't want to disturb you...
No, no, it's fine.
lt's alright. Please.
-How's your wife?
-She's okay.
She's okay. She's sleeping.
So is my daughter.
l just wanted to be here
for a while...
...before l held her.
Did you tag her already?
What does that say?
Oh, Camille.
-l'm sorry, sir.
-No, don't you take that off.
You leave that on where
it is. That's an order.
Colonel, may
l ask you a question?
Sure.
What do you think about
being a...
...soldier and a father?
l hope that being good at
the one makes me...
...better at the other.
Why?
What about you?
l don't know, sir.
Between college and here...
Barbara and l spent
a year in Africa.
We helped build a school
for orphans.
They were orphans because
the War Lord across...
...the border didn't like
their tribe.
l know God has a plan for me.
l just hope it's to help
protect orphans...
...not make any.
Why don't we ask him?
Come on, let's go ask him.
Our Father in Heaven...
Before we go into battle...
Every soldier among us
will approach you...
...each in his own way.
Our enemies too according
to their own understanding...
...will ask for protection and
for victory.
And so we bow before your
infinite wisdom.
We offer our prayers
the best we can.
l pray you watch over the young
men like Jack Geoghegan...
...that l lead into battle.
You use me as your instrument
in this awful hell...
...of war to watch over them.
Especially if they're men like
this one beside me...
...deserving of a future in your
blessing and good will.
-Amen.
Oh, yes... and one more
thing, Dear Lord...
...about our enemies...
...ignore their heathen prayers
and help us blow...
...those little bastards
straight to hell.
Amen again.
Amen.
Thank you.
There is one about the kid
with the apple tree...
...or the flying horse, or...
...the fairytale with the deer
and stuff on him.
-Daddy.
-Yes?
What is the war?
The war is...
Well, it's...
...it's something that
shouldn't happen...
...but it does.
And it is when...
Some people...
...in another country
or any country...
...try to take the lives
of other people.
And then soldiers like
your daddy have to, you know...
lt is my job to go over
there and stop them.
Are they going to try to take
your life away, Daddy?
Well, yes, Cecile,
they are going to try.
But l'm not going to
let them.
Okay?
French ln lndo China:
Did not know the terrain
Poor lntelligence
Underestimated the enemy.
Did not fight on home ground
Massacre.
Can't sleep?
The men are so young...
...and they sent me a new
crop even greener.
And when l look at them...
l see our boys.
Then you're just the man
to lead them.
l guess.
We intend to convince
the Communist...
...that we cannot be
defeated...
...by force of arms.
l have asked the
Commanding General...
...General Westmoreland...
...what more he needs...
...to meet this mounting
aggression.
He has told me.
And we will meet his needs.
l have today ordered to Vietnam
the Air Mobile Division.
And certain other forces
which will raise...
...our fighting strength
from 75,000 to...
..1 25,000 men...
...almost immediately.
Additional forces will be
needed later...
Get out your best dresses,
ladies.
They will want to celebrate.
Don't you ever...
...be scared.
Lean on me...
l didn't hear the President
Mention a State of Emergency.
No, he didn't.
Well, without that declaration,
it means our enlistments...
...will not be extended.
l'm sorry, Hal.
Forgive me, Sir, but let me
get this straight.
We form a division using
techniques that...
...have never been attempted
in battle...
...against an enemy with 20
years of combat...
...experience on his ground...
...1 2,000 miles away from
our ground.
And right before the Army
sends us into the fight...
...they take away a third
of my men.
The most experienced third,
including the officers.
l don't like it any better
than you do, Hal.
Hell, no!
You saw this coming,
didn't you...? Yes.
That's why you gave me that
new crop of platoon leaders.
Korea didn't teach
them anything.
-Politicians?
-Politicians...
Hold me.
Never let me go...
...until you told me...
...told me...
...what l want to know...
...and then just hold me.
Hold me...
Make me tell you
l'm in love with you...
Thrill me.
Thank you, Sir.
By the way, Hal, since
we're being deployed...
...they're renumbering
the units.
You're now the
Commanding Officer...
...of the 1 st Battalion
of the 7th Cavalry.
The 7th?
The same regiment
as Custer.
Thank you, Sir.
They told me: ''be sensible
with your love''.
Don't be fooled...
...they missed the last
you've find.
But they never suited
after you...
...when you take me in
your arms...
...and l'll go slowly out of
my mind.
Kiss me... kiss me.
And when you do l'll know...
...that you will miss me.
Miss me.
Did we ever say...
...l've been so kiss me.
Kiss me.
Let me tell you...
...l'm in love with you.
Kiss me.
And when you do l'll know...
...that you will miss me...
Look around you.
ln the 7th Cavalry...
...we've got a Captain from
the Ukraine...
...another from Puerto Rico...
...we got Japanese,
Chinese, Blacks...
...Hispanics, Cherokee lndians...
...Jews and Gentiles...
...all Americans.
Now here in the States...
Some men...
...in this unit...
...may experience discrimination
because of race or creed.
But for you and me now...
...all that is gone.
We're moving into
the Valley...
...of the Shadow of Death.
Where you will watch
the back...
...of the man next to you...
...as he will watch yours.
And you won't care
what color he is...
...or by what name
he calls God.
They say we're leaving home.
We're going to what home...
Was always supposed to be.
So let us understand
the situation.
We are going into battle...
...against a tough and
determined enemy.
l can't promise you...
...that l will bring you
all home alive.
But this l swear...
...before you and before
almighty God...
...that when we go
into battle...
...l will be the first to set
foot on the field...
...and l will be the last to
step off...
...and l will leave no one
behind.
Dead or alive...
...we will all come home
together...
...so help me God.
l love you.
Central Highlands,
South Vietnam, 1 965
HEADQUARTERS 1 ST BATTALlON
7TH U.S. CAVALRY REGlMENT
''GARRY OWEN'' 1 ST CAVALRY
DlVlSlON AlR MOBlLE
-Hal.
-Sir.
Last night the enemy hit
our camp at Plaei Me.
-How many casualties?
-None.
The enemy forces withdrew
from this mountain near...
...the Cambodian border.
How many men do you have
battle-ready, give or take?
-Sergeant Major?
-395, Sir.
Exactly.
What do you estimate
the enemy strength?
We appraise their numbers
as manageable, Colonel.
You have no idea.
We have no idea.
Simple orders, Hal.
Find the enemy and kill him.
They attack us...
no casualties.
Then they run and hide
in the mountains.
Naturally we chase
them of course.
Does it smell like an
ambush to you?
They get close
enough to kill us...
...we'll be close enough
to kill them.
Round trip per chopper,
30 minutes.
That means the first 60 men...
...on the ground will be
there a half hour alone.
Son-of-a-bitch.
l think maybe you ought
to get yourself an M-1 6.
When time comes l need one,
they'll be plenty of them lying...
...on the ground.
Let's go do what
we came here to do.
Yes, Sir.
Carry on!
lt was a Sunday,
November 1 4th...
...1 965.
Before that day, the soldiers
of North Vietnam...
...and those of America...
...never met each other
in a major battle.
Two miles out.
Dropping to nap of the earth.
The helicopter soldiers
are coming!
Get them ready!
1 0:48 A.M.
Landing Zone X-Ray
First Platoon. Let's move.
lt's a scout!
Let's take him prisoner!
Lieutenant!
There he goes!
Come on!
Captain, l want you to keep
contact with all patrols.
Hey... l got something here!
l got a boy!
Well, hell, that ain't no boy!
-He say he deserter.
-Bullshit, he's a lookout.
Ask him where his friends are.
Hey say this is base camp
for whole division.
-4,000 men.
-Where?
That mountain...
Same army that
destroyed French.
He say they want to kill
Americans very badly.
Just not been able
to find any yet.
Captain Metsker...
...tell all the patrols
to hold their positions.
You, take the radio!
-Sir...
-We got to get that guy!
Captain, you call in all
the patrols.
We have to regroup and
engage the enemy...
...all the way from the LZ...
Net call. Net call.
This is Trojan-Two...
Grab the wounded!
Fall back!
Get the high ground!
Get off there!
Take the wounded out of ammo!
Hold the fire!
Everybody down!
Down!
Check your ammo!
Everybody check ammo!
Come on!
l'll get us out of here.
Grab the wounded!
We'll make a run for it!
Sarge? Sarge!
We got to get out of here!
Stay down!
Don't anybody move!
Bungum, stay down!
Stay down!
Form a perimeter!
Conserve your ammo
and stay down!
1 :1 5 P.M.
The Knoll.
What's happening with
that patrol?
l'm trying to reach them, Sir!
Trojan Two... come in! Over!
Hey!
Hey! Calm down!
Understand the situation
and communicate clearly!
Pull the chain on all the
firepower you can get on...
...that mountain!
Alert Crandall,
we have a hot LZ!
Agent Serpent Six,
this is Trojan Two.
You're coming into a hot LZ!
We are taking fire!
Repeat! We are taking fire!
No shit!
Shift immediately to
their flanks.
Do not let them breathe!
Roger that. Trojan-Two out.
Herrick's platoon is cut off
and under attack!
Bravo Company's holding!
They're going to
try to flank us!
Move!
-We got to go!
-We are out of here.
Move!
Savage...
Alright... alright... l got you.
Sir...?
Don't let them get the
signals codes...
Roger that.
l'm glad l could die
for my country.
Doc...
Bungum...
Sarge!
Tell my wife...
...l love her.
This is Savage. l need artillery
at these coordinates...
Niner-3-3-0-1 ...
Ernie! Ernie help!
We got more coming!
We are cutoff!
Copy. We are cutoff.
Landing Zone Falcon
Five miles from X-ray.
Fire!
We are going to call
a 1 00 more, sir!
They are right on
top of us, sir!
Bringing in it close!
They are using artillery
as a shied!
lt is accurate, and continuous.
We must overrun them now,
when they are at their weakest!
Attack here...
...here, and here!
Overwhelm the landing zone...
...and we have choked
their route...
...of supply and escape!
lt's a hot LZ!
We'll be jumping!
We will not touchdown!
They're trying to break right
through us!
l want you to reinforce
Alpha Company, there!
Yes, Sir!
Now! Move!
Follow me! Charlie Company
up on the ridge!
Doc! The wounded are over
by that termite mound! Go!
Sir, if you don't find some
cover, you're gonna go down!
lf you go down, we all go down!
Come on!
Follow me!
l want the M-1 6 here!
Radio!
Sir!
Captain Edwards on the ridge!
Bob!
Colonel, these guys
are regulars!
Heavily armed! AK-47's
and pouches of grenades!
Heavy machine guns
and shoulder-fired rockets!
Have we broken through?
The Americans just
landed another...
...wave of reinforcements.
They massed precisely...
...where we attacked
Use the creek bed.
Captain Nadal!
That creed bed is vital!
Vital!
-They'll be coming right at you!
-Do not let them flank!
l repeat, do not
let them flank!
Secure the creek bed!
2:27 P.M.
The Creek Bed
Tom! l want you to keep trying
to raise those Medevac boys!
Tom... Tom?
l'm alright.
Charlie, come here!
l want you to get me all
the air support...
...you can get me on
that mountain! Now!
Now!
Requesting immediate close
air support.
l need you to burn them out
on hilltop.
Alpha, shift to Alpha Bravo.
Coordinates: Golf 4-5-2...
Give me something higher up
on that.
Shifting to hilltop, Bravo!
4-5-7-2!
l'll say again: 4-5-7-2!
Medevac Command of the 7th
Cavalry, are you inbound?
Looks pretty hot down there.
lt is a little hot.
Just watch our approach.
Follow us in.
Copy that 7th Cavalry.
We will follow your approach.
Get over there! Reinforce
Charlie Company. There!
You see that?
The Medevac are buggin' out
and leaving the wounded!
Snake! Get out of here!
Taking the wounded!
Get the wounded!
Come on! Come on!
Okay! Here!
They're still trying to
flank us!
Stretch out along the line!
Radio!
Trojan Six!
We are in heavy contact!
ln danger being overrun!
lf they get into the LZ,
we all had it.
Can you hold?
We're spread thin, sir,
but we'll keep them held!
Crandall. This is Trojan Six.
lt's too hot down here.
l'm closing the LZ.
-You copy that, Too Tall?
-Copy that, Snake.
U.S. lntelligence
Headquarters Saigon
l don't like it. First time out,
a whole battalion massacred.
-You think this is a massacre?
-l call losing...
...a lot of draftees a bad week.
Losing a Colonel is a massacre.
Moore is still fighting.
He's under strength against
more men than he can count.
He's got a whole platoon lost.
They're not lost. They're only
cut off and surrounded.
Then they're lost.
-Sergeant-Major!
-Sir!
We need to carve out an
emergency LZ right over there!
-Fine!
-Blow the trees down!
Fire in the hole!
Colonel, this is Snakeshit
and Too Tall.
We're coming in with 2 full
loads of ammo.
Crandall, we've blown a new LZ.
When you come in,
come in from the east. Out.
Colonel, it's Battalion
headquarters.
They want you out!
-We can't get out, damnit!
-Not all of us... just you.
Saigon wants to debrief you!
That doesn't make any sense!
Say again.
Will you repeat that order?
Too Tall, follow the Colonel
to the new LZ.
l see him, Snake.
Shit!
-We will give you a hand.
-We are moving on board.
Alright, get the ammo off!
Get the wounded up!
Come on! Bring them on!
Get them on, boys!
Come on!
No! No! We're overloaded!
No! l'll get out! lt's, Ray!
He's hurt worse than me!
You hang on!
l'll see you back there, Ray!
God! Help me!
God!
You, me and Ouellette are all
we have in reserve.
Yeah, it's slacking' up a little.
We just regroup for
another assault.
Distribute that ammo.
-Ouelette!
-Yes, Sir!
You tell Crandall he's got time
to get one more flight in here.
Yes, sir.
Agent Serpent Six,
this is Trojan Six...
Doc!
Give this water to the wounded.
Everybody's out of water.
lt must be terrible for them.
And those guys are
cut off up there.
3:34 P.M. - The Knoll
Running low on ammo, Sarge!
Pick your target.
One shot, one kill, alright?
How are we doin', Doc?
We're out of water.
That's the last of it.
My face is on fire!
Foster, hold still!
Hold still!
l'll cut your face!
Doc! Doc! Doc!
lt's Foster!
Okay!
Does anybody have
anymore bandages?
Ernie!
Ernie, are you hit too?
-Are you hit?
-No, no, l'm okay.
Our guys are going to come
for us, aren't they?
Yes.
When?
Plug his wound.
That's the main LZ,
but it's closed.
This is Too Tall. l'm clear.
Crandall's clear.
-Geoghegan.
-Colonel.
l want you to go over there
and reinforce your Company.
-Yes, sir!
-Okay! Keep your head down!
To the top of the ridge!
Move it!
Move! Move!
Captain Nadal.
We got to breakthrough
to that cut-off platoon.
We got an American platoon
out there.
An Air Cav platoon cut-off
out there!
Air Cav! Air Cav! Air Cav!
...l said: l know. Your mom asked
me to give you 600 dollars.
Hey, good luck to you.
Hey, you got enough room
for one more?
-lf you're crazy enough. Get in.
-Yes, sir.
Hey! What are those lights
down there?
Enemy soldiers.
They use candles on the trail.
They're moving into
position to attack.
Here we go!
Let's go! Let's go!
Let's go!
You and your boys have done
a hell of job today, Snake.
That is the last flight
for tonight, Colonel.
But if you need us,
you call us.
-Who the hell are you?
-l'm a reporter, Sir.
Joe Galloway, U.P.l.
How is it going, Colonel?
We've been flat to the boards
since last night.
We got more enemy
coming too.
l saw a whole
chain of lights...
-...coming down the mountain.
-ls that so?
-Yes, sir.
-l can't guarantee your safety.
Yes, sir, l know
-Where you from, son?
-Refugio, Texas, Sir.
That's the first thing l've heard
all day that makes any sense.
-Captain Dillon.
-Sir!
-Did you see those lights.
-l'm on it right now, sir.
You fry them son-of-a-bitches.
Risky-Six. This is Trojan-Three.
Fire emissions.
Angle foxtrot:
four-niner-six-five-six-niner...
All operations are suspended
for the evening.
Plane operations are scheduled
for zero-five-thirty hour.
-Where is Crandall?
-He's right there, sir.
Crandall.
You led my men into a hot LZ.
Yes, somebody had to fly out
the wounded.
No, no, don't you play hotshot
with me!
You know the rules.
You suckered us in there.
lf you ever do it again,
l'm going to have you busted!
You got the balls to face me
but not to face the enemy!
Get out!
lf l ever see you again,
l'll kill you.
That's right.
What a day?
Tomorrow will be worse.
lf they make it to tomorrow.
Ernie, l can't see anything,
but l can smell them.
Dead bodies stink.
No, it's not the dead ones. l can
smell them crawling up on us.
l'm telling you.
l need illumination...
...6-5-0...
...1 -5-0-1 .
l need artillery on previously
established targets.
Alpha, Bravo and Charlie.
Fire for effect!
Save the ammo! Cease fire!
ls anybody hit?
Captain, if you guys are coming,
you gotta let us know.
lt's pitch black out here.
l don't want to shoot any
of our own guys.
Savage...
...we can't make it tonight.
Don't worry, you're going
to make it.
We'll come get you in
the morning.
Yes, sir.
Out.
2:23 A.M. - The Ridge
Pete...
you're doing a...
...fine job, son.
Don't worry.
We gave them more than they
gave us today. Keep it up.
-How're you boys doing?
-Fine, sir.
Keep it up. Keep doing what
you're doing and you'll be fine.
Your men have done a hell
of a job today...
-Lieutenant Geoghegan...
-They won't get through us, sir.
-You can count on it.
-l know that, Jack.
Keep it up, son.
-lt's Rear Headquarters, sir.
-How is it out there, Colonel?
We're surrounded
but we're holding on, Sir.
Sir, l need a confirmed count
of our dead and wounded.
l got to know where all
my boys are.
You'll get it, Hal.
-Here they come.
-Captain Edwards.
l need illumination on
the perimeter.
Whisky-five.
This is Howard-six-alpha.
l need illumination. Now.
Cathy?
Cathy.
A telegram...
A cab delivers a telegram.
The Secretary of the Army...
...re...
...regrets...
Mrs Moore?
Colonel Moore's wife?
Yes.
l need help finding an address.
-l am looking for...
-You jackass!
Do you know what this is?
Do you know what you just
did to me?
l don't like this job, ma'am.
l'm just trying to do it.
Wait.
l'll take it to her.
And tell the cab company if
there are any others...
...just bring them to me.
Julie...
l just went by to see Catherine.
Everybody knows.
No chaplains or counselors.
Cab drivers!
The Army wasn't ready.
l'll go with you.
-Thanks.
-Who's it for?
No!
l thought she would hate me.
Your husband didn't start
the war.
They all knew this could
happen, and so did we.
l'll take care of these.
l'll go with you.
We'll do one at a time.
Okay?
We won't look, okay?
Okay.
Do you think they'll bring more
telegrams tomorrow?
lf there are, come and get me.
ln the name of The Father,
The Son and...
...The Holy Ghost.
Amen.
Out of the depths
l cry to thee Lord.
Lord hear my voice.
May thine ears be attentive to
the voice of my supplications.
...thou, O Lord, shall mark
our inequities.
Lord, who can abide them?
With thee there is mercy.
Grant them eternal
rest, O Lord...
And make a perpetual light
shine upon them.
And trough the mercy of God,
may they rest in peace.
Amen. ln the name
of The Father...
...The Son and The Holy Ghost.
You got a death wish, Galloway?
No, sir.
Then why are you here?
Because l knew these
dead boys will be here, sir.
Why aren't you a soldier?
You got the guts for it.
My daddy was a soldier.
My granddaddy, two of my great
granddaddies were soldiers.
Hell, that's how l came to be.
See, each of them lost a leg
in the Civil War.
My great granddaddy Galloway
he lost his left.
And my great granddaddy Reid
lost his right.
And...
...they met in a shoe store
in Galveston...
...every year after that that,
the same date, the same store...
...they would get together
and pick out...
...a brand new pair of shoes
for the two of them.
You are shitting me.
No, sir, l swear to God.
One had a daughter, one had
a son, my grandparents.
What the hell do you suppose
the odds of them...
...having the same
shoe size was?
l don't know, Colonel.
lt was meant to be, l guess.
Meant to be.
Sir, Galloways have been in
every war...
...this country has ever fought.
But when it came to this one l
didn't think l could stop the war.
You know, l...
...just thought that maybe.
l might try and understand one.
And maybe help folks
back home understand.
l just figured
l could do that better...
...shooting a camera than
l could shooting a rifle.
Well...
l sure hope you make it
through this one.
You too, Colonel.
We fought well today.
We tested their tactics...
...and learned their
capabilities.
Their artillery is effective...
...so we must get so close...
...they can't use it.
We will grab them by the
belt buckle.
Right twenty!
Put it right on them!
For the courage of those
who have died...
For those who are
about to die...
l am grateful.
6:09 A.M.
The Creed Bed
Colonel, sir.
-Nadal.
-Sir.
-What is it, sir?
-Nothing's wrong.
Except there's nothing wrong.
You just get back to the termite
mound. You'll be fine. Go on!
Roger that, sir.
Pass the word on. Every man...
...fire 3 rounds at anything looks
suspicious to them.
On my signal.
They're gonna hit us like this
on the whole perimeter.
We gotta get back to
termite mound.
Stay here till it stops.
Sir!... Sir!
Captain Edwards.
Charlie Company...
-...on the ridge.
-Bob?
They're inside the artillery!
l need...
Bob?
7:1 5 A.M. - The Ridge
Godboldt! l need a grenade!
Go men! Come on! Let's go!
Godboldt's down!
l'll get him!
Captain Dillon, l want you to get
Bravo Company to send up...
...a platoon across the LZ
support Charlie Company!
Bravo-six. This is Trojan three.
Bravo-six. This is Trojan three...
And tell Charlie Company
to get real small in their holes!
l'm going to drop some artillery
right on top of them!
Charlie Company. We've rounds
coming right into your position.
We're being overrun!
Now, boys, we're going to win
this fight.
They have brought a
main course...
...VC battalion against us too.
l'm requesting that...
...you dispatch another company
of reinforcements...
...for movement as soon as
it can be accomplished.
How bad is it, Hal?
lt's getting pretty sporty
down here, sir.
Get out of the way!
Medic! Get a medic over here!
Hey, what's your name, soldier?
Jimmy Nakayama!
l got a baby being born today!
-Congratulations!
-Thanks.
Medic!
You can't take no pictures
lying down there, sonny.
Down. Right there.
Sir, l'm a non-combatant, sir.
Ain't no such thing today, boy.
Shit!
Why aren't those
mortars firing?
What's the problem here?
These tubes are red hot, sir!
l'm afraid we're going to cook...
...a round off and blow us all up!
And we can't cool them off
cause we're all out of water!
Come on... what are you
waiting for?
Gentlemen...
...prepare to defend yourselves.
We are through their lines
on all sides.
Congratulations, Colonel.
You have beaten the Americans.
Negative. Negative. Stand by.
Any pilots do not see
the enemy.
They do no pick out
our friendlies.
Bravo-six, say again,
do you read?
You got to tell your Company
Commander to pop smoke now.
They need to mark the lines,
right now!
He has no lines!
Stand by.
We cannot see the target.
Our perimeter is collapsing.
Half of Company Bravo
is coming down.
Charlie Company is being
overrun!
Hastings!
Broken Arrow!
l say it again!
-Confirm, Broken Arrow.
-Broken Arrow. Confirmed.
-Broken Arrow?
-That means an American unit...
...is being overrun.
lt calls in every combat
aircraft for support.
My God, there's not
hiding it now.
Charlie Company! Report!
Bravo Company! Report!
Planes are on
their way, Colonel!
Sir!
Roger that.
We have planes stacked up
at every 1 ,000 feet...
...from 7,000 to 35,000!
We'll get them, sir!
Advancing coords to our
position. Right?
One-five-zero...
Nine-six-two-five-zero-seven...
You are getting closer in on
zero-five-zero degrees.
Repeat, zero-five-zero...
That's, zero-five-zero...
Goddamnit.
Company of enemy out in
the open...
...is facing north on
our position.
0-5-0 grados.
at 1-5-0.
We're getting closer in on
3-1-5 degrees al 0-5-0...
Charlie!
Call that son-of-a-bitch off!
Abort! Pull up!
Get down!
Charlie!
Charlie! Listen to me!
You're keeping us alive now.
You forget about that one!
And you keep them coming in!
You're doing well, son.
Seven-O-Two, attack against
the tree line.
Medic! Medic!
Medic!
Oh, God! Jimmy!
Do you know this guy?
You know him, talk to him.
Just talk to him!
Jimmy...
do you hear me?
lt's Joe. Joe Gallowway.
We're going to get you
out of here.
We got to get him to the
landing zone. Grab his legs.
You got to get
him out of here.
l can't help you!
You got to do it by yourself!
-Get him on that chopper! Okay?
-Yes, sir.
Tell my wife l love her...
...and my baby.
You tell them...
-Captain Nadal.
-Sir.
Now we put them back
in our heels. We got us a lull.
l want you to attack... l want you
to go in there and...
...rescue that cutoff platoon.
Yes, sir.
First Squad! Move out!
Add fifty.
Keep moving the artillery
forward!
Move it!
Keep moving forward!
Sergeant Savage...
you guys still here?
We have 40 K.l.A., we have
2 M.l.A...
...these are the last numbers...
That's a nice day,
Sergeant Savage.
40 dead. And 2 unaccounted
for, sir.
Right.
All right, boys, let's get
them up! Get them out!
Let's get them out of here!
Get them on the chopper!
Alright, since most of the men
being loaded on...
...the chopper is
Charlie Company,
l want you to take their place.
l'll show you where to start.
Yes, sir. Let's go.
Captain, you have your men dig
in some firing steps.
When it's over throw
some dirt on those bodies.
-...
-Right, Sergeant Major.
lt kind of makes you wish
you had signed up...
...for the submarines?
Colonel, Brigade headquarters
wants you lifted out...
...on the first chopper
at dawn.
Now, what idiot would keep
ordering that...
...in the middle of a
goddamn battle?
General Westmoreland
wants a briefing.
l am in a fight...
...and l object to this order
to return to Saigon.
Now l will not leave my men.
ls that clear? Out.
There's two of my men
unaccounted for out there...
...and it's where the worst the
fighting was so...
...they will be out
there some place.
Let's go and get them,
what do you say?
-l'm with you, sir.
-Alright...
Let's go.
Julie...
They...
...brought another...
No, God, Julie.
Julie, it's yours...
No.
He died.
Keeping my promise.
Sir, they're ordering us
all out.
All of us.
They're going to march
reinforcements in.
They don't understand a
damn thing, do they?
Can't get out.
He's waiting up there in a
cave and that's what he wants.
The minute he sees live soldiers
hopping on the helicopter...
...he will be all over us,
and then he'll get wants...
He'll get his massacre.
Requesting permission to
rejoin the lines, sir.
Alright, son.
Carry on, sir.
l wonder what was going
through Custard's...
...mind when he realized...
...he led his men into a
slaughter.
Sir, Custer was a pussy.
You ain't.
Goddamn...
Hell...
Right now they are planning
their final attack.
One that is going to
finish us off.
They will nibble at us
all night, then...
...come dawn they will hit us
with everything they got.
That's what l would do
if l was him.
Sergeant-Major...
-...hand out the last ammunition.
-Yes, sir.
Use the darkness to move
into position...
...and l will bring up
our reserves.
We will overwhelm
them at dawn...
...before they are ready.
5:57 A.M. The Third Day
Fix bayonets.
You were wondering how
Custer felt, sir.
You ought to ask him.
The Americans have
broken through our lines.
We have no soldiers
between them...
...and our command post.
Sergeant Savage!
Checking the dead enemies
for documents...
...l found this on the guy who
tried to bayonet you.
Translated some of it,
mostly personal.
l thought you might want to
have a look at it.
-Joe!
-What was that?
-lt's American artillery.
-Friendly fire.
-How many casualties?
What the hell happened
to you, Joe?
Hey, Joe.
Colonel Moore!
Colonel!
What was the key to your
victory, Colonel?
Sir, tell us how you feel.
Do you feel the United States
will be forced to take...
...the North Vietnamese
more seriously now?
How do you feel about the
lost of your men, sir?
Have you notified the
families, sir?
l'm glad you made it, son.
Thank you, sir.
You too.
l'll never forgive myself.
For what, sir?
That my men...
...that my men died
and l didn't.
Sir, l don't...
l don't know how to tell
this story.
Well, you got to, Joe.
You tell the American people
what these men did here.
You tell how my troopers died.
Yes, sir.
Thank you.
All of our men, living and
dead are off the field, sir.
Well done, Sergeant-Major.
Such a tragedy.
They will think this was
their victory.
So this will become an...
...American war.
And the end will be the same...
...except for the numbers who...
...will die before we get there.
ln Saigon, Hal Moore's
superiors...
...congratulated him for killing
over 1,800 enemy soldiers.
Then ordered him to lead the
men of the 7 th Cavalry...
...back into battle again.
He led them...
...and fought beside them...
...for 235 more days.
Kids, go to bed.
lsn't there someone
at the door?
Go to bed!
Children!
Your daddy's home!
-Daddy!
Some had families waiting.
For others, their...
...only family would be the
men they had bled beside.
There we no bands...
...no flags...
...no honor guards to welcome
them home.
They went to war because their
country ordered them to.
But in the end they fought not
for their country or their flag.
They fought for each other.
Dear Barbara...
l have no words to express to
you my sadness...
...over the lost of Jack.
The world is a lesser
place without him.
But l know he is with God
and the angels.
But even heaven has improved
by his presence there.
l know you too are sure of
this, and yet...
...this knowledge can't
diminish his lost...
...and your grief.
With abiding respect and
affection...
Hal Moore.
We who have seen war...
...we'll never stop seeing it.
ln the silence of the night we
will always hear the screams.
So this is our story.
For we were soldiers once...
...and young.
The Names of the men of
the 7 th Cavalry...
...who died in the la Drang
Valley are remembered on...
Panel 3-East of the Vietnam
War Memorial.
To their left and right are the
names of 58,000...
...of their brother-in-arms.
These are the names of those...
...who died at LZ X-Ray.